this is Nick, and this is me, Liz.
Today we are going to take up a
lot of space on the subway
in the United States use of public
transportation is growing significantly
faster than use of highways
and with more crowded subway cars come
new social issues
the latest is a phenomenon dubbed manspreading
here in New York the transit authority
has actually responded
and plans to launch an awareness
campaign in the coming months but how do
people in real life
actually respond to man spreading, and would they
act differently if they were women instead
of a man
on the subway nick has little issue
pushing his way to an open seat and
assuming position
stop after stop no one pays any
attention to him
I managed to get away with my own
version of manspreading too
but not without feeling like people were
glaring at me
my posture alone seems to be a spectacle
one that some some subway riders
immediately notice
and feel compelled to record with their
phones to post online or share with
their friends
Nick's legs spread wider and wider as this
train fills up
a group of four is forced to stand right
up against Nick as he takes up three
seats
no one appears to even notice the
behavior may have come very naturally
to Nick
but for me well not so much I'm always
crosslegged when I'm on the subway I always have like my
bag on me
even if there's no one standing I feel
like of awful
While I'm kind of rude on the subway to begin with, so it wasn't that big of a change
Do did it feel good? It did it felt really empowering
like you felt better after doing it?
I don't know I don't know if I want to go that far
how could taking up all of that unnecessary space make nick feel empowered
research shows that people who take
expansive body postures feel more
confident and successful
but scientists at MIT also found
expansive postures make subjects feel
more entitled
prompting increased cheating and
stealing behavior so it's possible that
man spreading
breeds bigger problems than just
uncomfortable subway rides
thankfully not everyone let nick get away
with this wide like a dominance
although man spreading may feel
liberating collectively standing up to it
empowers us all
its actually not that hard it turns out
that being just a little bit aware what
is going on around you can take an
immediate
issue and turn it into an opportunity
for progress even if that issue is just
an arrogant bro spreading his manhood
across three seats